So let's improve the solution of hardcoding this URL in there and let's start on our server
side code. There we pass a payload to send notification,
the second argument and right now, that's a Javascript object which has a title and a content property,
that's what we're passing. Now I'll
add a third one, you can give this any name you want, I'll name it
open URL because that should be the URL which should get opened.
Now the cool thing is this can now be the URL you really want to guide the user to, can be
a full URL, HTTP something,
https of course works too
or one which only works or which will then navigate to this absolute path on your server.
So here, I could go to /help to open the help page
whenever we click the notification.
Now this is my URL and I'm pushing this with a push notification.
Now this is the server side code,
so before we do anything else, let's run Firebase deploy again to upload this updated code.
We don't need to do anything else,
that's all we needed to change,
pass more data to the front-end. So this will keep on running and I continue working in the service worker
now. Here in the push listener,
that's where we'll get this data, right?
First of all for the fallback, I'll also set up a let's maybe name it
URL here and this could be slash, just slash to open the root page, so that we can really see
that we're not using this because if /help opens later,
it's not this URL.
So here we extract the data and now we can also pass this to our notification with a special option
I haven't introduced yet, the data option, that's important.
The data option is a useful option to pass, you guessed it, some extra metadata,
data you can later use upon interaction with your notification to the notification and you could pass
any data you want, as many properties as you want.
Here I want to pass a URL property and of course that URL property will be data.URL, with
data
now referring to my variable where I will have a URL property. Though in the data we get back
from the server, it's open
URL so therefore of course this little mistake, we need to change it here too,
so that should be open URL in the fallback too, so the same name as in the server
because here we are trying to directly access it from the data we get from the server and then we map it
to a URL property in this object we pass to data to our notification.
Now in the notification click listener, we can now extract that data,
that's the cool thing about passing data with it.
So here in notification click, we can access data on this extracted notification, the notification
we extracted from the event and therefore here where we navigate or where we open a new page, depending
on what we should do,
we can access notification.data, this is the special property we just set up and then it's open URL
in our case. So .data accesses this data thing and there we have a URL property actually,
so excuse me,
it should be
URL, the property we set up here
and that should now use the data we pass from the server to the front-end.
Now the deploy process is finished,
therefore let's save this and we updated the service worker, so I'll reload the page, close it and reopen
the tab to make sure you don't unregister the old one and now let's send a new push with custom URL
hopefully. Let's send post and I get my notification,
if I click on it, you see I go to the help page and that clearly proves that it works because the only
way we could get there is if we use our server side code because that's the only place where we point
to that.
So this is now working, we're now passing data from the server with the push message to the client.
We're using that to dynamically
open a different URL and that's all the power you probably need to really work with push messages
and enhance your application with them.